# 0x1A. C - Hash tables

## Requirements

### General

- Allowed editors: `vi`, `vim`, `emacs`
- All your files will be compiled on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS using gcc, using the options `-Wall -Werror -Wextra -pedantic -std=gnu89`
- All your files should end with a new line
- A `README.md` file, at the root of the folder of the project is mandatory
- Your code should use the `Betty style`. It will be checked using `betty-style.pl` and `betty-doc.pl`
- You are not allowed to use global variables
- No more than 5 functions per file
- You are allowed to use the C standard library
- The prototypes of all your functions should be included in your header file called `hash_tables.h`
- Don’t forget to push your header file
- All your header files should be include guarded

## More Info

### Data Structures

_**Please use these data structures for this project**_:

```c
/**
 * struct hash_node_s - Node of a hash table
 *
 * @key: The key, string
 * The key is unique in the HashTable
 * @value: The value corresponding to a key
 * @next: A pointer to the next node of the List
 */
typedef struct hash_node_s
{
     char *key;
     char *value;
     struct hash_node_s *next;
} hash_node_t;

/**
 * struct hash_table_s - Hash table data structure
 *
 * @size: The size of the array
 * @array: An array of size @size
 * Each cell of this array is a pointer to the first node of a linked list,
 * because we want our HashTable to use a Chaining collision handling
 */
typedef struct hash_table_s
{
     unsigned long int size;
     hash_node_t **array;
} hash_table_t;
```

## HASH TABLE

A **`Hash Table`** also known as **`Hash Map`**, is a data structure that implements an associative array or dictionary. It is a data structure that maps keys to values. A hash table uses a hash function to compute indexes for a key. You can store the value at the appropriate location based on the hash table index.

The benefit of using a hash table is its very fast access time. If two different keys get the same index, you will need to use other data structures (buckets) to account for these collisions. If you choose a very good hash function, the likelihood of a collision can be negligible.

## Steps In Choosing a Hash Table

- **Choosing a Hash Function**: The first step is to choose a reasonably good hash function that has a low chance of collision. **_Note:_** A hash function is any function that can be used to map data of arbitrary size to fixed-size values. The values returned by a hash function are called `hash values`, `hash codes`, `digests`, or simply `hashes`. The values are usually used to index a fixed-size table called a `hash table`. Use of a hash function to index a hash table is called `hashing` or `scatter storage addressing`.
- **Defining the Hash Table Data Structures**: A hash table is an array of items, which are { key: value } pairs.
- **Creating the Hash Table and Hash Table Items**: Next, create functions for allocating memory and creating items. Create items by allocating memory for a key and value, and return a pointer to the item.
- **Inserting into the Hash Table**: Create a function, ht_insert(), that performs insertions. The function takes a HashTable pointer, a key, and a value as parameters.
- **Searching for Items in the Hash Table**: Create a function that checks if the key exists, and returns the corresponding value if it does.
- **Handling Collisions**: A collision occurs when more than one value to be hashed by a particular hash function hash to the same slot in the table or data structure (hash table) being generated by the hash function.
- **Deleting from the Hash Table**: Create a function that can delete a key and its value from the Hash Table.